# Instructions for Inputing Data
Welcome to Accounting Helper!

This app allows you to make a chart of accounts, trial balance, and income statement with a simple input of your assets, liabilities, and owner's equity.

When you first run the program, type 'assets', 'liabilities', 'capital', 'drawings', 'revenue', or 'expenses' to select the type of account that you would like to input. You will be asked to enter the name of the account, the value of the account, and whether the value is a debit or a credit. When you are done entering the type of accounts for the menu that you are in, type 'back' to go back to the main menu to select a different type of account to input. If at any point you make a mistake, finish entering your current account. When asked for the account name again, type '(del) account name' except replace account name with the account name. Note that you can only delete accounts that are part of the menu you are in. For example, you can only delete assets in the asset menu. If you want to be reminded of what accounts you have inputed and their values, finish inputing your current account and type 'view' when prompted to enter the account name. To empty a certain type of account, enter that menu and when prompted for the account name, type 'empty'. For example, if you want to clear all your assets, from the main menu, first type 'assets' to go to the assets menu. Then type 'empty' to clear all your assets.

When entering accounts receivables (debtors), please enter them in the form of 'a/r company name'. If the debtor is a person, please enter the account in the following format: 'a/r lastname;firstname'. When entering accounts payables (creditors), please enter them in the form of 'a/p company name'. If the creditor is a person, please enter the account in the following format: 'a/p lastname;firstname'. For capital accounts, enter the accounts in the following format: 'lastname;firstname, capital' or 'lastname;firstinitial., capital'. The format for entering drawings accounts is the same as for capital accounts except replace 'capital' with 'drawings'.

NOTE: The program will sort your assets in order of liquidity. Liabilities will be sorted in the order in which they should be paid. Capital and Drawings accounts will be sorted in alphabetical order by last name. Revenue and expenses will be sorted in alphabetical order. When entering the values of your accounts, do not enter the currency along with the value. The first letter of each word will be automatically capitalized.

Reminder: Assets normally have a debit balance. In other words, if you have $100 in your bank account, the account balance should be debit $100. If you have a bank balance of -$100, the account balance should be credit $100. PLEASE DO NOT USE NEGATIVES. Liabilities normally have a credit balance. If you owe someone $10, the balance would be credit $10. Capital accounts and revenue normally have a credit balance. Drawings and expenses normally have debit balance.


# Instructions for Creating Data
When ready to create data, go back to the main menu. When asked for the type of account menu to enter, type 'create'. If at any point you make a mistake or want to go back to the main menu, type 'back'. Please note that in order to prevent frauds and prevent the user from having to input their data again after realizing a mistake in the data, your values for your accounts must fit into the following equation: assets = liabilities + capital - drawings + revenue - expenses for you to be allowed to start creating your worksheets. After entering a series of questions, a new window will open up for you to start creating your worksheets. IMPORTANT: For worksheets that are too long to be fitted in the whole window, you can use the arrow keys to scroll up and down.
